docs: add ModuleWithProviders migration doc (#33085)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/migration-module-with-providers.md

# `ModuleWithProviders` Migration

## What does this schematic do?

> This schematic figures out the type of the module and tries to add the generic type. If the type is unclear, the schematic gives it a generic type of `any` and by default, add a `TODO` comment if module type can't be determined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Angular libraries, such as `@angular/router` and `@ngrx/store`, implement APIs that return a type called `ModuleWithProviders` (typically via a method named `forRoot`). This type represents an `NgModule` along with additional providers. In Angular v9 deprecates use of `ModuleWithProviders` without an explicity generic type, where the generic type refers to the type of the `NgModule`.

This schematic determines the type of the `NgModule` used with `ModuleWithProviders` and adds the generic type. If the type cannot be determined, the schematic uses `any` and adds a `TODO` comment.
```

**Before**
```ts

@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [

>         {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config}
```

(similar for other examples)

      ]
    };
  }
}

```

> Here, the type of `ModuleWithProviders` is the ngModule, `SomeModule`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the type of `ModuleWithProviders` is the `NgModule`, `SomeModule`.
```

export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders<SomeModule> {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}
```

However, if the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`, the type will be `any` and you'll see a TODO comment.

**Before**
```ts

// how do I make this such that the schematic can't figure out the type?
@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}

```

Here, the type of `ModuleWithProviders` is indeterminate, so the schematic add a generic type of `any` to `ModuleWithProviders`.

**After**

```ts

// What does the TODO comment say? And which line should I put it on?
@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders<any> {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}
```

## Why is this migration necessary?

> `ModuleWithProviders` has had the generic type for over a year, but it has been optional. This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata. With Angular version 9, there is no more `metadata.json`.

Reviewer: I would have "for over a year" to "since &lt;whatever version it was introduced>"

Author: Added with a placeholder. @Kara, do you know when it was added?

Author: Got it!

> In Angular version 9, `ModuleWithProviders` without a generic type will be deprecated. In a future version of angular the generic type will be required, so if you omit it, Angular will throw.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular version 9 deprecates `ModuleWithProviders` without a generic type. A future version of Angular will remove the default generic type, making an explicit type required.
```

## What does this mean for libraries?

Libraries should add the generic type to their modules that use `forRoot()`. Though library maintainers should update their code for Ivy breaking changes, they can still compile with View Engine, as `ngcc` recompiles with Ivy.

## What about applications using non-migrated libraries?

If your app depends on libraries, `ngcc` will go through your libraries and add Ivy specific code for those that haven't applied the schematic. In this way you're not depending on library maintainers to upgrade anything. ngcc the thing the cli runs to update your libraries to Ivy.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> <header>What is `ngcc`?</header>

Reviewer: This feels like it should be a standalone page that instances of `ngcc` link to

Reviewer 2: +1 Can we add a page for ngcc?

export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders<SomeModule> {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}
```

However, if the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`, the type will be `any` and you'll see a TODO comment.

**Before**
```ts

// how do I make this such that the schematic can't figure out the type?
@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}

```

Here, the type of `ModuleWithProviders` is indeterminate, so the schematic add a generic type of `any` to `ModuleWithProviders`.

**After**

```ts

// What does the TODO comment say? And which line should I put it on?
@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders<any> {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}
```

## Why is this migration necessary?

> `ModuleWithProviders` has had the generic type since ___________, but it has been optional. This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata. With Angular version 9, there is no more `metadata.json`.

Reviewer 2: Angular version 9 with View Engine still requires metadata.json. It's just Ivy that doesn't require it.

```suggestion
`ModuleWithProviders` has had the generic type since ___________, but it has been optional. This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata. With Ivy, `metadata.json` files are no longer required.
```

Author: Added. Also edited the wording a little on my sentence with "_______" so I don't accidentally merge it. I can come back and fix it when I find the specific time frame.

> `ModuleWithProviders` has had the generic type since ___________, but it has been optional. This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata. With Angular version 9, there is no more `metadata.json`.

Reviewer 2: The original PR is here: https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/24862

You should be able to cross-reference with release dates to find the Angular release that would have been in

Angular version 9 deprecates `ModuleWithProviders` without a generic type. A future version of Angular will remove the default generic type, making an explicit type required.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Should I add the generic type when I add new `ModuleWithProvider` types to my application?

Yes, any time your code references the `ModuleWithProvider` type, it should have a generic type that matches the actual `NgModule` that is returned.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What should I do if the schematic prints a TODO comment?

The schematic will print a TODO comment in the event that it cannot statically determine the correct `NgModule`. In this case, you'll want to replace the `any` generic type with the correct `NgModule` type associated with that `ModuleWithProviders`.

```

## What does this mean for libraries?

> Libraries should add the generic type to their modules that use `forRoot()`. Though library maintainers should update their code for Ivy breaking changes, they can still compile with View Engine, as `ngcc` recompiles with Ivy.

Reviewer 2: It's not `forRoot` specifically; it's anything that uses the `ModuleWithProviders` type.

```suggestion
Libraries should add the generic type to any usages of the `ModuleWithProviders` type.
```

## What about applications using non-migrated libraries?

> If your app depends on libraries, `ngcc` will go through your libraries and add Ivy specific code for those that haven't applied the schematic. In this way you're not depending on library maintainers to upgrade anything. ngcc the thing the cli runs to update your libraries to Ivy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ngcc` should transform any non-migrated libraries to generate the proper code.
```

Some Angular libraries, such as `@angular/router` and `@ngrx/store`, implement APIs that return a type called `ModuleWithProviders` (typically via a method named `forRoot()`).
This type represents an `NgModule` along with additional providers.
Angular version 9 deprecates use of `ModuleWithProviders` without an explicitly generic type, where the generic type refers to the type of the `NgModule`.

This schematic will add a generic type to any `ModuleWithProviders` usages that are missing the generic.
In the example below, the type of the `NgModule` is `SomeModule`, so the schematic changes the type to be `ModuleWithProviders<SomeModule>`.

**Before**
```ts

@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config}
      ]
    };
  }
}

```

**After**

```ts
@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders<SomeModule> {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}
```

> If the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`, the type will be `any` and you'll see a TODO comment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the rare case that the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`,  you may see the schematic print a TODO comment to update the code manually.
```

## Why is this migration necessary?

`ModuleWithProviders` has had the generic type since Angular version 7, but it has been optional.

> This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata. With Ivy, `metadata.json` files are no longer required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata. With Ivy, `metadata.json` files are no longer required, so the framework cannot assume that one with the necessary types has been provided. Instead, Ivy relies on the generic type for `ModuleWithProviders` to get the correct type information.
```

> Angular version 9 deprecates `ModuleWithProviders` without a generic type. A future version of Angular will remove the default generic type, making an explicit type required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason, Angular version 9 deprecates `ModuleWithProviders` without a generic type. A future version of Angular will remove the default generic type, making an explicit type required.
```

## Should I add the generic type when I add new `ModuleWithProvider` types to my application?

> Yes, any time your code references the `ModuleWithProvider` type, it should have a generic type that matches the actual `NgModule` that is returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, any time your code references the `ModuleWithProvider` type, it should have a generic type that matches the actual `NgModule` that is returned (e.g. `ModuleWithProvider<MyModule>`).
```

## What should I do if the schematic prints a TODO comment?

> The schematic will print a TODO comment in the event that it cannot statically determine the correct `NgModule`. In this case, you'll want to replace the `any` generic type with the correct `NgModule` type associated with that `ModuleWithProviders`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The schematic will print a TODO comment in the event that it detects an invalid or incomplete `ModuleWithProviders` object. In this case, you'll want to correct the `ModuleWithProviders` object so that it matches the type definition. Then you can run the migration again or manually add a generic type to `ModuleWithProvider` that adds the associated `NgModule`.
```

## What does this mean for libraries?

Libraries should add the generic type to any usages of the `ModuleWithProviders` type.

## What about applications using non-migrated libraries?

> `ngcc` should transform any non-migrated libraries to generate the proper code.

Reviewer 2: Will this be turned into a link?

    };
  }
}

```

**After**

```ts
@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders<SomeModule> {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}
```

In the rare case that the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`, you may see the schematic print a TODO comment to update the code manually.

## Why is this migration necessary?

`ModuleWithProviders` has had the generic type since Angular version 7, but it has been optional.
This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata.
With Ivy, `metadata.json` files are no longer required, so the framework cannot assume that one with the necessary types has been provided.
Instead, Ivy relies on the generic type for `ModuleWithProviders` to get the correct type information.

For this reason, Angular version 9 deprecates `ModuleWithProviders` without a generic type.
A future version of Angular will remove the default generic type, making an explicit type required.

## Should I add the generic type when I add new `ModuleWithProvider` types to my application?

> Yes, any time your code references the `ModuleWithProvider` type, it should have a generic type that matches the actual `NgModule` that is returned (for example, `ModuleWithProvider<MyModule>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, any time your code references the `ModuleWithProviders` type, it should have a generic type that matches the actual `NgModule` that is returned (for example, `ModuleWithProviders<MyModule>`).
```

## What should I do if the schematic prints a TODO comment?

The schematic will print a TODO comment in the event that it cannot detect the correct generic for the `ModuleWithProviders` type.
In this case, you'll want to manually add the correct generic to `ModuleWithProviders`. It should match the type of whichever `NgModule` is returned in the `ModuleWithProviders` object.

## What does this mean for libraries?

Libraries should add the generic type to any usages of the `ModuleWithProviders` type.

## What about applications using non-migrated libraries?

`ngcc` should transform any non-migrated libraries to generate the proper code.

> For more information on `ngcc` see the [ngcc guide](guide/ngcc).

Reviewer 3: I see no point in making this a separate page, unless there is going to be actual guidance on how to use it. If it happens automatically, the definition can be added here.

      ]
    };
  }
}
```

In the rare case that the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`, you may see the schematic print a TODO comment to update the code manually.

## Why is this migration necessary?

`ModuleWithProviders` has had the generic type since Angular version 7, but it has been optional.
This has compiled because the `metadata.json` files contained all the metadata.
With Ivy, `metadata.json` files are no longer required, so the framework cannot assume that one with the necessary types has been provided.
Instead, Ivy relies on the generic type for `ModuleWithProviders` to get the correct type information.

For this reason, Angular version 9 deprecates `ModuleWithProviders` without a generic type.
A future version of Angular will remove the default generic type, making an explicit type required.

## Should I add the generic type when I add new `ModuleWithProvider` types to my application?

Yes, any time your code references the `ModuleWithProvider` type, it should have a generic type that matches the actual `NgModule` that is returned (for example, `ModuleWithProvider<MyModule>`).

## What should I do if the schematic prints a TODO comment?

> The schematic will print a TODO comment in the event that it detects an invalid or incomplete `ModuleWithProviders` object.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, we just changed the implementation, so we have to update this

```suggestion
The schematic will print a TODO comment in the event that it cannot detect the correct generic for the `ModuleWithProviders` type.
```

In this case, you'll want to correct the `ModuleWithProviders` object so that it matches the type definition.

> Then you can run the migration again or manually add a generic type to `ModuleWithProviders` that adds the associated `NgModule`.

Reviewer 2: Replace these two lines with this: 

```suggestion
In this case, you'll want to manually add the correct generic to `ModuleWithProviders`. It should match the type of whichever `NgModule` is returned in the `ModuleWithProviders` object.
```

# `ModuleWithProviders` Migration

## What does this schematic do?

Some Angular libraries, such as `@angular/router` and `@ngrx/store`, implement APIs that return a type called `ModuleWithProviders` (typically via a method named `forRoot()`). This type represents an `NgModule` along with additional providers. Angular version 9 deprecates use of `ModuleWithProviders` without an explicitly generic type, where the generic type refers to the type of the `NgModule`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Think we're missing a summary line here:

```suggestion
This schematic will add a generic type to any `ModuleWithProviders` usages that are missing the generic.

In the example below, the type of the `NgModule` is `SomeModule`, so the schematic changes the type to be `ModuleWithProviders<SomeModule>`.
```

**Before**
```ts

@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config}
      ]
    };
  }
}

```

> Here, the type of `ModuleWithProviders` is the `NgModule`, `SomeModule`.

Reviewer 2: Remove this because it's now in the other paragraph.

```suggestion
```

**After**

```ts
@NgModule({...})
export class MyModule {
  static forRoot(config: SomeConfig): ModuleWithProviders<SomeModule> {
    return {
      ngModule: SomeModule,
      providers: [
        {provide: SomeConfig, useValue: config }
      ]
    };
  }
}
```

> However, if the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`, the type will be `any` and you'll see a TODO comment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the schematic can't determine the type of `ModuleWithProviders`, the type will be `any` and you'll see a TODO comment.
```
